README.md, before:

# node-red-contrib-esphome

[![platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Node--RED-red?logo=nodered)](https://flows.nodered.org/node/node-red-contrib-esphome)
[![Min Node Version](https://img.shields.io/node/v/node-red-contrib-esphome.svg)](https://nodejs.org/en/)
[![GitHub version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-red-contrib-esphome)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome)](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/stargazers)
[![Package Quality](https://packagequality.com/shield/node-red-contrib-esphome.svg)](https://packagequality.com/#?package=node-red-contrib-esphome)

[![issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome?logo=github)](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome)
![NPM Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/node-red-contrib-esphome.svg)
![NPM Downloads per month](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/node-red-contrib-esphome)
![Repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome)

## About

### !!! Alpha, Alpha, Alpha release
### !!! Need help writing documentation

Node-RED nodes to ESPhome devices

## Changelog

#### 0.2.7
  - fix status [issues/36](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues/36)
#### 0.2.5
  - change status algorithm [issues/30](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues/30)
  - support Reconnect interval (Default: 15 sec) [issues/29](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues/29)
#### 0.2.3
  - support Text
#### 0.2.1
  - support Status in node

## Installation

```bash
$ npm i node-red-contrib-esphome
```

## Inputs

Inputs are sent to the node as JSON payloads. The list below provides a list of keys and values (and their expected value type) that may be sent to the "esphome out" nodes. It is helpful to watch the "esphome in" messages to learn which type and range of commands are expected by your device.

Some example message payloads are:

```js
// to set a light on:
msg.payload = {'state': true}

// set a door lock to unlock:
msg.payload = {'command':0}

// to toggle a light to 42% brightness:
msg.payload = {'brightness': 42}

// to press a button:
msg.payload = true
```


#### Button

Button inputs may be triggered with any payload in the input message. Simply send a timestamp, `true`, or other payload to the button node. Button type nodes provide no messages into Node-RED.

#### Climate
  - `mode` - optional. 0 - OFF, 1 - AUTO, 2 - COOL, 3 - HEAT, 4 - FAN_ONLY, 5 - DRY.  See `supportedModesList` attr in config
  - `targetTemperature`- optional. float
  - `targetTemperatureLow`- optional. float
  - `targetTemperatureHigh`- optional. float
  - `legacyAway` - optional. Boolean. Deprecated: use `preset` with AWAY
  - `fanMode` - optional. 0 - ON, 1 - OFF, 2 - AUTO, 3 - LOW, 4 - MEDIUM, 5 - HIGH, 6 - MIDDLE, 7 - FOCUS, 8 - DIFFUSE, 9 - QUIET. See `supportedFanModesList` attr in config
  - `swingMode` - optional. 0 - OFF, 1 - BOTH, 2 - VERTICAL, 3 - HORIZONTAL. See `supportedSwingModesList` attr in config
  - `customFanMode` - optional. string. See `supportedCustomFanModesList` attr in config
  - `preset` - optional. 0 - NONE, 1 - HOME, 2 - AWAY, 3 - BOOST, 4 - COMFORT, 5 - ECO, 6 - SLEEP, 7 - ACTIVITY. See `supportedPresetsList` attr in config
  - `customPreset` - optional. string. See `supportedCustomPresetsList` attr in config
#### Cover
  - `legacyCommand` - optional. 0 - OPEN, 1 - CLOSE, 2 - STOP. Deprecated: use `position`
  - `position` - optional. float. 0.0 - CLOSED, 1.0 - OPEN. See `supportsPosition` attr in config
  - `tilt` - optional. float. 0.0 - CLOSED, 1.0 - OPEN. See `supportsTilt` attr in config
  - `stop` - optional. boolean
#### Fan
  - `state` - optional. boolean
  - `speed` - optional. 0 - LOW, 1 - MEDIUM, 2 - HIGH
  - `oscillating` - optional. boolean
  - `direction` - optional. 0 - FORWARD, 1 - REVERSE
  - `speedLevel` - optional. integer. See `supportedSpeedLevels` attr in config
#### Light
  - `state` - optional. boolean
  - `brightness` - optional. float
  - `red` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `green` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `blue` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `colorMode` - optional. integer. See `supportedColorModesList` attr in config
  - `colorBrightness` - optional. float
  - `white` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `colorTemperature` - optional. integer
  - `coldWhite` - optional. float
  - `warmWhite` - optional. float
  - `flashLength` - optional. integer
  - `effect` - optional. string. effect from effects array in config list
#### Lock
  - `command` - REQUIRED. 0 - UNLOCK, 1 - LOCK, 2 - OPEN
  - `code` - optional. string. See `requiresCode` attr in config
#### MediaPlayer
  - `command` - REQUIRED. 0 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_PLAY, 1 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_PAUSE, 2 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_STOP, 3 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_MUTE, 4 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_UNMUTE
  - `volume` - optional. float
  - `mediaUrl` - optional. string
#### Number
  - `state` - REQUIRED. float. See `minValue`, `maxValue`, and `step` attrs in config
#### Select
  - `state` - REQUIRED. string. See `optionsList` attr in config
#### Siren
  - `state` - REQUIRED. boolean
  - `tone` - optional. string. See `tonesList` attr in config
  - `duration` - optional. integer. See `supportsDuration` attr in config
  - `volume` - optional. integer. See `supportsVolume` attr in config
#### Switch
  - `state` - REQUIRED. boolean
#### Text
  - `state` - REQUIRED. string. See `minLength`, `maxLength` attrs in config

## Pictures

<img src="https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/raw/main/readme/device.png">
<img src="https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/raw/main/readme/flow.png">

Commit message:

Add note that the api must be enabled on the ESPHome device to the README

README.md, after:

# node-red-contrib-esphome

[![platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Node--RED-red?logo=nodered)](https://flows.nodered.org/node/node-red-contrib-esphome)
[![Min Node Version](https://img.shields.io/node/v/node-red-contrib-esphome.svg)](https://nodejs.org/en/)
[![GitHub version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-red-contrib-esphome)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome)](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/stargazers)
[![Package Quality](https://packagequality.com/shield/node-red-contrib-esphome.svg)](https://packagequality.com/#?package=node-red-contrib-esphome)

[![issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome?logo=github)](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome)
![NPM Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/node-red-contrib-esphome.svg)
![NPM Downloads per month](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/node-red-contrib-esphome)
![Repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome)

## About

### !!! Alpha, Alpha, Alpha release
### !!! Need help writing documentation

Node-RED nodes to ESPhome devices

## Changelog

#### 0.2.7
  - fix status [issues/36](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues/36)
#### 0.2.5
  - change status algorithm [issues/30](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues/30)
  - support Reconnect interval (Default: 15 sec) [issues/29](https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/issues/29)
#### 0.2.3
  - support Text
#### 0.2.1
  - support Status in node

## Prerequisites
Your ESPHome device must be configured with the ESPHome API enabled.

In your device.yaml configuration file:

```yaml
# Example configuration entry
api:
```

See [ESPHome documentation on api configuration](https://esphome.io/components/api.html) for more information.

## Installation

```bash
$ npm i node-red-contrib-esphome
```

## Inputs

Inputs are sent to the node as JSON payloads. The list below provides a list of keys and values (and their expected value type) that may be sent to the "esphome out" nodes. It is helpful to watch the "esphome in" messages to learn which type and range of commands are expected by your device.

Some example message payloads are:

```js
// to set a light on:
msg.payload = {'state': true}

// set a door lock to unlock:
msg.payload = {'command':0}

// to toggle a light to 42% brightness:
msg.payload = {'brightness': 42}

// to press a button:
msg.payload = true
```


#### Button

Button inputs may be triggered with any payload in the input message. Simply send a timestamp, `true`, or other payload to the button node. Button type nodes provide no messages into Node-RED.

#### Climate
  - `mode` - optional. 0 - OFF, 1 - AUTO, 2 - COOL, 3 - HEAT, 4 - FAN_ONLY, 5 - DRY.  See `supportedModesList` attr in config
  - `targetTemperature`- optional. float
  - `targetTemperatureLow`- optional. float
  - `targetTemperatureHigh`- optional. float
  - `legacyAway` - optional. Boolean. Deprecated: use `preset` with AWAY
  - `fanMode` - optional. 0 - ON, 1 - OFF, 2 - AUTO, 3 - LOW, 4 - MEDIUM, 5 - HIGH, 6 - MIDDLE, 7 - FOCUS, 8 - DIFFUSE, 9 - QUIET. See `supportedFanModesList` attr in config
  - `swingMode` - optional. 0 - OFF, 1 - BOTH, 2 - VERTICAL, 3 - HORIZONTAL. See `supportedSwingModesList` attr in config
  - `customFanMode` - optional. string. See `supportedCustomFanModesList` attr in config
  - `preset` - optional. 0 - NONE, 1 - HOME, 2 - AWAY, 3 - BOOST, 4 - COMFORT, 5 - ECO, 6 - SLEEP, 7 - ACTIVITY. See `supportedPresetsList` attr in config
  - `customPreset` - optional. string. See `supportedCustomPresetsList` attr in config
#### Cover
  - `legacyCommand` - optional. 0 - OPEN, 1 - CLOSE, 2 - STOP. Deprecated: use `position`
  - `position` - optional. float. 0.0 - CLOSED, 1.0 - OPEN. See `supportsPosition` attr in config
  - `tilt` - optional. float. 0.0 - CLOSED, 1.0 - OPEN. See `supportsTilt` attr in config
  - `stop` - optional. boolean
#### Fan
  - `state` - optional. boolean
  - `speed` - optional. 0 - LOW, 1 - MEDIUM, 2 - HIGH
  - `oscillating` - optional. boolean
  - `direction` - optional. 0 - FORWARD, 1 - REVERSE
  - `speedLevel` - optional. integer. See `supportedSpeedLevels` attr in config
#### Light
  - `state` - optional. boolean
  - `brightness` - optional. float
  - `red` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `green` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `blue` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `colorMode` - optional. integer. See `supportedColorModesList` attr in config
  - `colorBrightness` - optional. float
  - `white` - optional. integer 0-255
  - `colorTemperature` - optional. integer
  - `coldWhite` - optional. float
  - `warmWhite` - optional. float
  - `flashLength` - optional. integer
  - `effect` - optional. string. effect from effects array in config list
#### Lock
  - `command` - REQUIRED. 0 - UNLOCK, 1 - LOCK, 2 - OPEN
  - `code` - optional. string. See `requiresCode` attr in config
#### MediaPlayer
  - `command` - REQUIRED. 0 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_PLAY, 1 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_PAUSE, 2 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_STOP, 3 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_MUTE, 4 - MEDIA_PLAYER_COMMAND_UNMUTE
  - `volume` - optional. float
  - `mediaUrl` - optional. string
#### Number
  - `state` - REQUIRED. float. See `minValue`, `maxValue`, and `step` attrs in config
#### Select
  - `state` - REQUIRED. string. See `optionsList` attr in config
#### Siren
  - `state` - REQUIRED. boolean
  - `tone` - optional. string. See `tonesList` attr in config
  - `duration` - optional. integer. See `supportsDuration` attr in config
  - `volume` - optional. integer. See `supportsVolume` attr in config
#### Switch
  - `state` - REQUIRED. boolean
#### Text
  - `state` - REQUIRED. string. See `minLength`, `maxLength` attrs in config

## Pictures

<img src="https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/raw/main/readme/device.png">
<img src="https://github.com/twocolors/node-red-contrib-esphome/raw/main/readme/flow.png">
